PoC / Paraview integration for ``mesh_doctor`` (#2790)
GEOS-DEV/GEOS: src/docs/sphinx/pythonTools/mesh_doctor.rst

.. command-output:: python mesh_doctor.py supported_elements --help
   :cwd: ../../../coreComponents/python/modules/geosx_mesh_doctor

``Using mesh_doctor in paraview``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
To use ``mesh_doctor`` in Paraview as a python programmable filter, a python package install is required first in Paraview python resolved
path. Paraview is storing its python ressources under its *lib/pythonX.X* depending on the paraview version, *e.g* Paraview 5.11 is working
with python 3.9. As a results the following command will install ``mesh_doctor`` package into Paraview resolved path.

.. command-output:: python3 -m pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ --no-deps --upgrade --target /path/to/Paraview/lib/python3.9/ mesh_doctor

.. note::
    ``pip`` is installing the ``mesh_doctor`` package from the test.pypi repo, which is intended to test package deployment.

>     Once stabilized and ``mesh_doctor`` uploaded onto the main package repo, this should be dropped out.

Reviewer: <img width="325" alt="image" src="https://github.com/GEOS-DEV/GEOS/assets/49004943/51eda42b-a2f2-4b4e-933f-d0256340a0b1">
😱 🤣

Author: Hacky I said :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:

Reviewer 2: is installing it like this working for you? When I tried it seemed to me that there were some issue in the setup.py that did not allow for this to work. Basically I could not find the modules when trying to import them.

Author: I got this output 
```
Looking in indexes: https://test.pypi.org/simple/
Collecting mesh_doctor
  Downloading https://test-files.pythonhosted.org/packages/97/cc/1ece6916f6e87f95cff4b887f2e6ce50488b146a2e025a959c3665a12d6e/mesh_doctor-0.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (42 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 42.4/42.4 KB 2.1 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Installing collected packages: mesh_doctor
Successfully installed mesh_doctor-0.0.1

```
and I can checked afterwards that `checks` is in `/path/to/Paraview/lib/PythonX.X' but this need refactor/cleanup obv.

Author: As a workaround you can try while being in `mesh_doctor` directory conatining the `.toml`

```
python3 -m pip install --upgrade build
python3 -m build
```

which should produce de `dist/` directory with `.whl` and `.tar.gz`. 

The install command on the `.tar.gz` might also work, as

```
python3 -m pip install dist/mesh_doctor-0.0.1.tar.gz --target /path/to/paraview/lib/pythonX.X'

Once the installation done, the */path/to/Paraview/lib/pythonX.X* should holds ``mesh_doctor`` package content, *i.e.* ``checks`` and ``parsing``.
Then launching ``Paraview`` and loading our *mesh.vtu*, as an example, we will design a *Programmable python filter* relying on *element_volumes* from
``mesh_doctor``. Add such a filter pipelined after the mesh reader, in the script section paste the following,

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    input0 = inputs[0]

>     tol = 1.2e-6

Reviewer: Do you know how to define `tol` from the GUI?

Author: That I think would remain to be set from the script. This would maybe possible via Plugin to have a `QLineEdit` (just guessing though)

    from checks import element_volumes
    import vtk
    #

>     res = element_volumes.__check(inputs[0].VTKObject, element_volumes.Options(tol))

Reviewer: We'll need to change the name of `__check` 🤣 
Also, if using `inputs[0]` is an issue, maybe `mesh_doctor` can evolve?

Author: Agreed, going into _private_ function is hacky :stuck_out_tongue:

Reviewer 3: Yes, that will definitely be interesting for GEOS user working with external meshes.
@jafranc Have you considered Paraview Python plugin instead of Programmable Filter in Paraview?

Author: I did not yet but will have a look

Reviewer 3: Perhaps @AntoineMazuyer might be able to help on this

>     input0 = inputs[0]
>     tol = 1.2e-6
> 
>     from checks import element_volumes
>     import vtk
>     #
>     res = element_volumes.__check(inputs[0].VTKObject, element_volumes.Options(tol))
>     #print(res)
>     ids = vtk.vtkIdTypeArray()
>     ids.SetNumberOfComponents(1)
>     for val in res.element_volumes:
>      ids.InsertNextValue(val[0])
>     #
>     selectionNode = vtk.vtkSelectionNode()
>     selectionNode.SetFieldType(vtk.vtkSelectionNode.CELL)
>     selectionNode.SetContentType(vtk.vtkSelectionNode.INDICES)
>     selectionNode.SetSelectionList(ids)
>     selection = vtk.vtkSelection()
>     selection.AddNode(selectionNode)
>     extracted = vtk.vtkExtractSelection()
>     extracted.SetInputDataObject(0, inputs[0].VTKObject)
>     extracted.SetInputData(1, selection)
>     extracted.Update()
>     print("There are {} cells under {} m3 vol".format(extracted.GetOutput().GetNumberOfCells(), tol))
>     output.ShallowCopy(extracted.GetOutput())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mesh = inputs[0].VTKObject
    tol = 1.2e-6

    from checks import element_volumes
    import vtk

    res = element_volumes.__check(mesh, element_volumes.Options(tol))
    #print(res)
    ids = vtk.vtkIdTypeArray()
    ids.SetNumberOfComponents(1)
    for cell_index, volume in res.element_volumes:
        ids.InsertNextValue(cell_index)

    selectionNode = vtk.vtkSelectionNode()
    selectionNode.SetFieldType(vtk.vtkSelectionNode.CELL)
    selectionNode.SetContentType(vtk.vtkSelectionNode.INDICES)
    selectionNode.SetSelectionList(ids)
    selection = vtk.vtkSelection()
    selection.AddNode(selectionNode)
    extracted = vtk.vtkExtractSelection()
    extracted.SetInputDataObject(0, mesh)
    extracted.SetInputData(1, selection)
    extracted.Update()
    print("There are {} cells under {} m3 vol".format(extracted.GetOutput().GetNumberOfCells(), tol))
    output.ShallowCopy(extracted.GetOutput())
```

> Here we rely on ``pyvtk`` interface more than on Paraview adaptation, for legacy and reusability reasons. This is the reason

Reviewer: Do you mean that we cannot access `vtkSelectionNode` from within `paraview`?
We may want to find a way to detect that we're in the "paraview plugin env" to rely on the paraview vtk not to risk any conflict.
But the `requirements.txt` part remains. However, we'll move forward!

Author: That is exactly that. As I tried to launched it having `from paraview import vtk` instead of `import vtk`, I bumped into an error saying that there was no `vtkSelectionNode`. As _Paraview_ is able to do the operation, I guess this is just that this is not exposed but wrapped. But there must be a way through _Paraview_, it is just a question of 1. I started from a pyvtk script, which I found more versatile but not Paraview compativle  and 2. we might want to rewrite the script in a more _Paraview_ way then.
